HORATIO COUSENS: It's not fun...
watching you throw yourself
at danger
like you think
it's gonna propose.
Coming here to patch you up
-over and over.
-Could be fun.
I was left here
completely alone
with nothing but a mission
I was never actually given,
no orders, no objectives.
The heart of our empire
brought to a shuddering halt.
The blade is in. We need to know
whose hand is on the hilt.
Do you think that
I had something to do
with your friend's death?
Did you? It would save me
such a lot of time.
I hope he told you what happens
to spies during war time.
A few days ago,
dark as the day we found it.
And now...
MALADIE: They say I killed Mary.
I never did it.
I only kill angels.
Justice! She gets justice
from us!
Myrtle understood Mary's song.
-She said,
"Come below and find me."
-(SOBS)
PRIMROSE CHATTOWAY:
Who do we need to find?
(shovels clacking)
♪
(rumbling)
(sudden snap)
(heavy breathing)
(soft moaning)
(kissing)
-(Amalia moans)
-Judge: After five weeks...
five grueling weeks
of testimony
as to your heinous
and unrepentant malfeasance...
-(Amalia moans)
-this court finds you guilty
of the crimes of burglary,
-theft, assault...
-(passionate moaning)
extortion, indecency,
kidnapping,
and 15 counts of murder.
Désirée:
You're clear.
Judge:
The court therefore
sentences you, Maladie,
to be hanged by the neck
until you are dead.
Sentence to be carried out
in the public square.
(gasps, indistinct chatter)
So that all who wish
may see the punishment
for such wickedness,
and the end of
your reign of terror.
May God,
assuming He ever
gave you one,
have mercy on your soul.
(giggles)
(thuds)
(shovels clacking)
(rumbling)
(birds cawing)
A public execution?
A travesty we abolished
30 years ago.
A necessity.
All of London is watching.
-The world is watching.
-Yes.
As we turn savage.
Turn into Darwin's
ancestral apes.
My cousin,
His Majesty, the king--
Oh, yes,
please remind us again
who your cousin is,
because we wake
each dawn having forgot.
We are not apes, Your Grace.
We are managing a crisis.
The Certification Act,
the Blue Badge Act.
We keep the Touched
accountable, visible.
-The woman is chained
like an animal.
-She's not in pain,
and that's the point.
Pain gives her power
she could use to escape.
And not allowed to wash,
or change.
Does she gain power
from that, hmm?
Or are we violating--
Maladie hangs as Maladie.
Not some anonymous prisoner.
This is a case where
justice must be seen.
Lord Allaven-Tyne:
There is a legitimate concern,
and it's not just
the Prime Minister,
about enflaming the Touched.
A minimal risk,
at worst.
I have ordered troops
deployed around the square,
and any potential
targets in the city.
But no marching,
dress uniforms,
or bayonets.
Well, except around the palace.
The queen will have
her pageantry.
But nothing resembling
martial law.
We must keep control,
not seem to be grasping for it.
I'm not talking about
some rabble
hurling brickbats at patrolmen.
It's the long-term.
We showed our hand
siccing that ghastly
gunman Kroos
on Mary Brighton, and for what?
Within a week,
The Orphanage had
doubled its roster.
If Kroos hadn't
silenced Brighton,
it might've increased tenfold.
And Maladie's not some
fetching chorus girl.
She's a pariah.
Maladie's hanging will cause
a brouhaha, we all know,
-but it is in
the long-term that--
-Prince Albrecht: Gentlemen.
We took a vow to
protect the Empire,
not to kill for sport.
We've learned nothing
of the origin of the illness,
or the creator of these...
horrors.
You ignore my reports
on the menace of electricity,
-and then when I am absent...
-(glass clinking)
I think, Prince Albrecht,
there was some concern
as to the nature
of your absence.
Massen:
About your sympathies
with regard to the Touched.
In particular,
why the princess was, uh,
bundled off to Zurich
in the dead of night.
Bettina has lumbago!
And we wish her
a speedy recovery.
But our patient is,
as you say, the Empire.
(inhales)
And it requires a bloodletting.
Lord Allaven-Tyne:
You know that won't be enough.
Not for a lasting peace.
-Amalia: X-ray.
-Penance: Spectralacle.
You X-rayed London.
It's a spectral-acle.
Because it can see
through the-- but, yes.
The square bits are
where we'll need to drill.
The rest should be open air.
Be easier to go
straight down.
Not if we want
to come back up.
The Galanthi's right under
Grand Abbey,
and Nimble says
it's covered in thugs.
Amalia:
But we still don't know whose.
We'll find that out
on our reconnaissance.
I've studied the angles,
and this is the best place
to get in.
So what's this?
The Royal Military Army.
-Which is better?
-Not usually.
But we do have an opportunity.
Which is?
This is the part
I don't like so well.
Horatio:
Maladie's hanging?
The whole place
will be dark for the day.
Augie has a friend from school
who says everyone's
being deployed.
-Hmm.
-Grand Parliament.
Buckingham Palace.
-Are they expecting a rebellion?
-Maybe.
(kisses)
Are you planning a rebellion?
A reunion.
-You're afraid.
-I'm not.
You're afraid to go see
the Galanthi.
Yes. Yes, of course I am.
(moans)
Nothing's happened
the way it should've. I--
What if I-- Stop that.
No, don't stop.
You're a bad person.
(moans) Oh. Uh-huh.
What if that's because...
Uh-huh...
What if it's because of me?
What if it sees
what a horror I've been?
-(pants)
-(whispers): I think that
every night.
Don't bring up Katherine.
Okay. It's... It's gonna...
It's gonna work, all right?
It's...
It's gonna be worth it.
It'll heal us. All right?
Heal us. Us.
-Heal this.
-(stammers)
I, I don't know. I...
-They're murdering women,
but this is a sin.
-Just...
-(sighs)
(Horatio groans)
(shovels clacking)
It's hatching.
No, uh, more chrysalis than egg.
Speaking loosely,
it's moving from
a liquid state to--
goggles!
(clicking)
We're keeping exact
track of the pulses.
-They're dimmer, but...
-Lavinia: Kill it.
-Dr. Hague: Ma'am?
-It has a crack in it.
Kill it!
If it can crack,
it can break.
No, it cracked.
I didn't crack it.
I-- and I still can't.
We have the bunker ready.
Another week of digging,
and we can lay the tracks.
This thing will be
miles away from the city
-when it emerges--
-Our hopes for a cure
were childish.
Its power grows by the day.
There's a fever
spreading through London.
Do you forget we're on the eve
of a public execution?
You think that's coincidence?
I think it's justice.
(distant thudding)
When we hang someone
in America...
we watch.
(sighs)
F-forgive me.
Maladie killed great men
of my profession.
Friends.
I may seem all numbers, but...
-(creaking)
-(energy pulsing)
I am still a man.
I am still capable of rage.
Of pettiness, and hope.
The two of us have been
more exposed down here
than anyone,
but your moral compass
hasn't fluttered.
I'm still capable.
Neither of us
has sprouted wings.
This creature
isn't all-powerful.
If Satan himself is in there,
I doubt he's a match
for Lavinia Bidlow.
We're taking a terrible risk.
It means to destroy us.
If we've lost hope...
it already has.
(exhales)
(indistinct chatter)
(children laughing)
Woman:
(grunts) Ooh.
-Oh! Oh...
-(slams)
"And what of those
looking down from above,
"jud-ging-- judging these women
"without knowing where
their own jud-g-ment ends.
"When He who sits above all
"and yet looks down on no one
calls 'em to account,
will they explain how
celebrating murder
was the righteous path?"
She's terribly compelling.
Ah, so you liked it?
Telling all to Désirée.
'Course you did.
You are so predictable.
Hey, it's Mrs. True's orders.
And talking to Désirée,
baring the soul,
among other things,
it takes a weight off.
Among other things.
-(grunts)
-(thuds)
And now everyone's comfortable
with me being here,
except around the silver,
and trinkets, purses,
keepsakes...
-(grunts)
-(energy pulsing)
Annie:
Smug.
Won't be this easy tomorrow.
Can't skip away in a dark cave.
Oh, I'm not skipping.
Good. I don't want
to talk about it either.
Go on, then. Go.
Everybody's glad you're going.
She smiled because
you're going!
Nimble:
Men.
We truly are the unfairer sex.
-(thudding)
-Aah.
"When Maladie is swinging
"in the sight of lords
and little girls,
will that bring peace
to London?"
I guess maybe the Galanthi will.
Whatever they are.
Well, not in time for her,
but...
Is it even gonna work?
Hanging Maladie.
Mrs. True said she gets
stronger from pain, yeah?
From pain.
Not from damage.
Not from death.
Read the end.
"Maladie's hanging is more
than a barbaric spectacle.
"It is a crack
in the soul of the city,
"and who knows what venomous
vapors will billow from below,
"infecting it with the oldest,
most animal rage,
and making Maladies of us all."
Well, I don't much like
the sound of that idea.
There's no legal
argument for this.
Look, the 1868 amendment
made executions private,
only subject to change
in order to prevent abuse
or to give greater
solemnity to the act.
This will do the opposite,
and the government knows it.
They're hanging Maladie
for being Touched.
(footsteps departing)
Name, address, employer.
-And you've got your
letters of support?
-Yes.
Clerk:
New Touched who are here
to register, get in this queue.
-(sighs) Right.
-Clerk: You'll get
your turn soon enough.
She wears this everywhere.
If she's seen in public
without it,
that's jail for a month.
Now, you wait over there
while she's in the
demonstration room.
Demonstration?
What-- what you
gonna demonstrate?
It's ju-- It's just the ears.
Nah, I've seen this one
in me henhouse last week.
-Aw, don't worry, pet.
-(daughter gasps)
We'll get out
the hounds and horses.
See how fast you can run.
Frank:
I told you when
you first started
nosing around here, Boyle,
-you can't interview her.
-Five minutes.
-She'd kill you in four.
-Three and a half minutes.
Oh, come on, Mundi.
I need this.
They need this.
All this registration nonsense,
it's just a milder form of
what's going on with Maladie.
Maladie--
Maladie is the worst killer
in London's history.
The less she's heard from,
the better chance
we've got of controlling
this fucking circus.
You don't want
this hanging either.
No, I want order.
I want the wicked punished
and the good protected.
Then do something besides
sitting at your desk
ogling the Touched women.
I can't see the Touched women,
and you can't see Maladie,
'cause it helps nothing
except your sales.
My sales matter.
I'm the only one showing
the human side of the Touched.
Mundi, people can print
whatever they want.
I am still in favor
of the truth.
-Who's this?
-Murder.
Railmen tried to throw it
on Maladie's pile.
With no ID, no one missing,
it fits the description.
Effie: Well, they didn't
put much effort into
matching the writing.
I have that coat.
Or that style.
It's popular with working women.
It's a sharp cut,
and it's cheap.
I'll wager she worked
in an office
but was out a lot of the time.
She was in the underground,
city council,
a secretary, or a...
"secretary."
You put a name on her,
I'll take you to Maladie myself.
You mean it?
I do not.
After all that,
both the ostriches were females.
(laughs)
Well. Oh...
-(gulps)
-(Lavinia whimpers)
-Lavinia, are you all right?
-Oh, it's nothing.
Slight ache behind the eyes.
Oh.
Did you buy that waistcoat
on your own?
It looks like one of Swann's.
No, I just...
I just thought...
Hello.
You need to steer clear
of him in future,
and now that that
ghastly club of his
has become a matter
of public record.
He's my friend.
(clears throat)
-(sighs)
-He was your friend, as well.
Do you-- (laughs)
Do you remember when you took us
ice skating with you?
He made you laugh all day
just pretending to be
an ice dancer.
Yes, he was charming at 10.
Augie, the devil may take
a pleasing form,
but you trust people,
and I think...
I...
You know, you must call
Dr. Waterson about
those headaches.
Or I'll tell Hugo that you think
he has a pleasing form,
then you'll never hear
the end of it.
-Stop it.
-Diner: They should hang her,
and shoot her.
Just to make sure.
(laughs)
Woman:
How early are we going?
Can we pay a boy
to hold a place in front?
Why don't they just bring guns
and shoot her themselves?
(gasps)
We are not murderers, madam.
No, you just like to watch.
At least Maladie
has a work ethic.
(whispering inaudibly)
What are you saying?
-Oh, noth-- noth--
-Don't apologize for me.
How dare you?
I'm not someone's dotty mother.
There are vultures everywhere.
Dressed up in hats
and fine silks.
-(patrons muttering)
-(dishes clattering)
(diners chattering softly)
Yes, I was quite good
at skating.
Rings around the rest of us.
You know, that, that's something
that hasn't changed.
You're not to be in the city
at all tomorrow, Augie.
-Don't argue.
-No, no, of course, no.
I, um...
I'm going to Brighton
for the day.
Uh, thank you.
Um, a-- a building's opened up
that might make a--
a good new bird sanctuary.
There's been a lot of interest
from the public of late.
Yes, the more barbaric
we humans are to each other,
the more we pamper our pets.
Or maybe the more we need them.
Augie...
Bring your sister
something fun back
from Brighton.
Of course.
One of the guards did say
Maladie sings.
-Nursery rhymes and such.
-How insightful.
Well, it's just, you know,
it's all about
mental capacity, really.
Hugo:
Are you fucking playing with me?
He's pressing charges.
This is insane!
Lord Humphries was badly burned.
Bertie Humphries
is a bully and a coward,
and he wasn't burned,
he was frozen.
And he was frozen because
he will not hear the words,
"Don't touch!"
(sighs)
Ronald is a great act.
He can chill your drinks.
You can see your breath,
-but you grab it,
you're only going to--
-Ronald isn't registered.
An unregistered Touched
can't contest a complaint.
If his lordship pursues this,
-you will--
-Injury waiver.
You cannot apply for membership
to the Ferryman's without it.
(sighs) Does Bertie
really want to go public?
Because I am more than happy
to speak to Lady Humphries--
Extortion is still illegal.
This is not extortion.
It is umbrage.
(exhales)
(sighs) Oh, God.
Do you know how hard
I am working?
(sighs) Dealing with
petty legalities
and excruciating paperwork,
and now some idiot
is wasting my time
because he's got angry
with the Touched.
Bugger. Of course you do.
(sighs) What a strange fate.
We've become men with offices.
Frank:
Yeah.
It's like looking in a mirror.
How do I make this go away?
Do you think my acts want
to be on a government list?
They know how people
feel about them,
even people who desire them.
Especially people
who desire them.
A "turn" is unique.
It marks you,
like a...
Like a Sargent portrait.
Or, um, oh, God,
what's that thing?
Fingerprints!
Are really no two alike?
That seems mad. (chuckles)
We have to register your man.
I won't list his place
of employment,
but you need to give
satisfaction to Lord Humphries,
not threats.
Send him a fucking horse,
or whatever you rich people do,
and no more of these.
If you can't keep
your people safe,
I will shut you down.
You ain't a man with an office.
You're a pimp with a gimmick,
and you're playing with fire.
-Again, it wasn't fire--
-It was someone's life!
I don't know how you always...
(breathing heavily)
Tomorrow, we are
going to kill a woman
for the public's entertainment.
'Cause that's what
London is now. It is...
Jack the fucking Ripper
grown into an 'ole city.
You're in entertainment.
You should come.
Get in the dirt,
smell the blood.
Then you'll know
what's on your hands.
Frank, why did you take
a job you hate?
'Cause I work with
the people who love it.
-Effie: Oh. Excuse me.
-...do know a bit about your...
Had your ear to the door,
I hope?
Oh, I didn't need to.
You're Hugo Swann.
You don't write
about the Touched
and not hear about London's
most infamous impresario.
(inhales)
I deny everything.
Oh, I'm not...
I'm not after your story.
But you are after something.
Something you can't get me.
Mmm...
So it's a challenge, is it?
You'd like that.
I'd like it more over a plate
of oysters at Pegini's.
We're both much too busy
to spend the afternoon
seeing who gets to use who,
but there is something
you can do for me.
(murmurs)
♪
(water running)
(birds chirping)
(faucet squeaks off)
(door opens)
(birds chirping)
(chirping continues)
(chuckles softly)
-Augie?
-Yes?
-(gasps, screams)
-(yells) Go!
-Oh...
-Were you a crow?
-What?
-Up there, were you peering
at me by way of bird?
Oh! Oh, G--
No, good God, no-no.
No, no, I--
I was-- I was me.
I was me, in, in... in me.
I don't-- I don't mean--
I came, I came for the meeting.
-So I would-- I would never!
-Wouldn't you?
-That bird seemed awful
keen on my ablutions.
-Well, I...
I mean, it's--
It's a-- It's a bird.
(laughs)
I-I didn't even know
you were bathing,
and that-that-that
that was a redwing,
anyway.
They never listen to a word,
I think.
Am I being recorded again?
Of course not.
I s-should make more noise
when I come in.
No, it's just, um...
the madness of all this.
It's as though sin is in bloom.
People doing what they oughtn't,
or doing nothing.
It's like we're being tested,
but it's that dream
where the test's over,
and you've not
found your pencils.
But you're telling me
the truth?
I would never betray your trust.
Wouldn't sneak a quick glance
at what a husband's
meant to see?
-Never.
-Well, is my naked frame
a source of dullness then?
(footsteps approaching)
-Am I interrupting?
-Yes, please!
I've got the drill all ready.
Let me show you.
Augie, how's the bird watching?
-I...
-You ready to make them
sing tomorrow?
Oh. Oh, yes, yes.
(clears throat)
They'll make
all sorts of noise.
They'll swoop about.
I've been practicing.
Be the perfect distraction
for the drilling.
What do you, um,
what do you think
you'll find down there?
If-if-if it's all right
for me to ask.
Um, I'm not sure what I'm--
what level of...
I-I know it's Galanthi,
uh, even in the singular.
The timing on
the explosive bolts
was the issue, but now...
-(clicks)
-(whirring)
We'll find answers.
Is it safe,
who's down there with it?
What do we need
to get it away from them?
There's more,
but can I just say hope?
You could have only said that.
(loud drilling)
And when you reach
the proper depth, you just...
Oh...
Uh... uh...
(whirring, clacking)
Uh, that--
that'd be the floor that it--
(swishing)
Yeah, that's not coming back.
No? Mmm...
Man:
Keep it movin'.
Maladie hangs tomorrow.
(clatters)
You mustn't rush, my sprouts.
It ain't a hangin'
if she don't swing.
(chuckles)
Chop chop!
Bring him 'round the back.
Slow and steady.
You's got all night.
Gilbert Massen.
Captain of industry,
Peer of the Realm.
Am I meant to call you "lord"?
Am I meant to call you "king"?
This machine's impressive.
Penance Adair's work, I think.
Yeah. It's fun.
-I let the kids tool
about the yard in it.
-(liquid pouring)
-Not very practical, though.
-(glass clatters)
If I ever crash,
I like a nice fat horse
in front of me
to take the brunt.
What the fuck do you want?
I want London under control.
-Meaning yours.
-Meaning not overrun
by monsters.
Monsters, yeah?
Well, Maladie
stretches tomorrow.
While Bonfire Annie
is free to set fire
to both our holdings,
while an uneducated Irish girl
builds something in days
that men of industry
have labored over for years.
A thing that threatens
the natural order
is by definition monstrous,
even if it's pretty.
There's nothing natural
about order, Gilly.
There's chaos. Savagery.
And then there's men like us,
who carve out just enough order
to make ourselves
absolutely necessary.
You didn't come here
'cause you're afraid
of the pretty ladies.
You just get ugly men
to murder 'em.
-Isn't that right, Odium?
-(door bangs open)
-(growls, grunts)
-(clattering)
My man Odium was sent
to kill Amalia True.
Thought it was an order
sent down from me,
which the law would've
happily confirmed.
Now you look me in the eye,
hand on heart,
and you tell me that
this man is not ugly.
I see only a soldier
who was laid out by a woman
one-fifth his fighting weight.
-(footsteps departing)
-We have a common enemy.
Someone, some group,
is rewriting
the rules of reality.
If we don't find
a way to control it--
You know why they call me
the Beggar King?
Hmm? 'Cause I had fuck-all,
and men followed me anyway.
The Touched are gonna
change things.
So did the fucking longbow.
I'll adapt.
I'm not looking
for an ally, Mr. Orrun.
I have a job.
It pays obscenely well.
Now was that so
fuckin' hard to say?
We have looked for the source
of all this, for a cure.
We've taken steps to...
But we're behind,
reacting when we should act.
Maladie's hanging presents
an opportunity to change that.
To be ready.
Be ready? You expecting
some kind of daring escape?
No, Maladie hangs.
Justice will be seen.
But in the short run,
it will stir up emotions
as much as it placates.
The Touched, the Purists,
their defiance
is at a fever pitch.
Right, and you want my men
to keep the peace.
Maintain the natural order,
as it were?
As far as my people know, yes.
But, uh, it's become
apparent to me
that if London is going
to be saved from chaos,
it needs to see chaos.
What I want from you
is just enough.
(slow breathing)
(soft sighing)
(door squeaks closed)
-Are you heading up?
-I have to finish
rebuilding the drill.
-How are the girls?
-Mmm, a bit jittery.
Except for Myrtle,
who's angry she
doesn't get to go.
I'm pretty sure that's
what she was angry about.
She has to get on with
her writin' lessons.
I would take her
if I knew it was safe.
She speaks Galanthi.
A couple of the girls
were saying you killed Lucy.
Annie shut them down,
but she's a bit
frightening herself.
But you know I didn't.
Oh, of course not.
No, you would never.
No, I would.
I wanted to.
That's how you know I didn't.
And yes, I miss Lucy, too.
I wonder if Mary does.
-No, I'm not saying that--
-They're either with us, or--
Well, what about forgiveness?
I mean, forgiveness still exists
in the world, doesn't it?
Or did we come up with a cure?
Was kindness just
germs all along?
This time tomorrow,
-I promise you won't be worried.
-It's just, I always--
I always say that
I won't make weapons.
But most of my gimcracks,
they could kill someone
in the wrong circumstances.
So could a candlestick.
A pail of water.
They're violent things,
my engines.
Sometimes energy itself,
it just seems... relentless.
Penance, the Galanthi
will know your heart...
-the way I know--
-(loud banging)
-(laughter)
-(running footsteps)
(breathing heavily)
(ropes squeaking)
(ominous music playing)
I need to finish the drill.
♪
(grunts)
Maladie:
♪ Unmindful of the roses ♪
♪ Unmindful of the thorn ♪
♪ A reaper, tired, reposes  ♪
♪ Among his gathered corn ♪
♪ So might I...  ♪
♪ Till morn' ♪
♪ Cold as the cold Decembers  ♪
♪ Past as the days that set  ♪
♪ Whilst only one remembers ♪
♪ And all the rest forget  ♪
♪ But one remembers yet ♪
♪ But one remembers yet  ♪
(Maladie sobs)
(birds chirping)
-How did you sleep?
-Standing up, with my eyes open.
And working. I didn't sleep.
-What am I seeing?
-This is how we do it.
Amalia:
How we do... what?
This is how we save Maladie.
I know the Galanthi
is the key to our hopes,
and it needs us to come for it
as soon as we can, but--
But Maladie is going to be
murdered this day out in public,
and I can't let it happen.
I know I'm not meant to.
I've seen it done once,
and if I have
the power to stop it,
then that is the reason
I have power at all.
Maladie is not Mary.
She tried to kill Mary, and you.
-I'm not saying she--
-She murdered a dozen people,
also in public. Remember that?
This is the legal execution
of a genuine threat
-who is also violently unhappy.
-So it's a mercy killin'.
Sometimes it's a mercy.
But this time it's a lynching.
For them to crow at,
and for us to expect.
It's a noose in a row of nooses
next to a row of nooses.
You expect me to turn
my back on the only power
that can make all of this right
that told me a month ago
it needs me
so that we can prove
to the public
we're all in league
with a psychotic killer?
How is that--
that's all the nooses.
That's putting
the Touched at risk
much more than letting
a crowd foam over one--
I know you're not comin', True.
-I'd feel better
if you did, but...
-(sighs)
I can't let you do it.
-Oh, let's please not go
down that road.
-If you get hurt,
-and you will get hurt--
-Oh, yes, 'cause I know,
I'm a child.
I've not been in battle.
I've not killed and eaten
a dozen fierce men.
I also haven't.
But I am in the world.
I am a part of God's world.
And I don't believe He means
for us to go backwards,
killin' each other for sport.
Amalia:
We'll go save a dozen
people tomorrow. Children.
That's not the point.
Kittens?
It's her. It's now.
Something inside me broke.
It, it, it snapped like a rib,
True, and it hurts.
I will not live with the thought
that I ignored that s-sign.
So God is telling you
to save Maladie.
No. Is He telling you
to abandon her?
Would your Galanthi
look kindly on that?
And could it not heal Sarah?
Make her who she was before?
Have you-- have you never
even wondered on that?
There are things
you can't come back from.
That's a theory you're
awful anxious not to test.
So this is about
what I did to Sarah.
It's about the girls.
All of them,
in here and all out there.
(muffled yelling):
Not just their safety.
It's about how
they see the world.
A part of them breaks
or goes quiet for always
when the world turns beastly.
When we just let it.
You're not bringing her here.
I mean, after many,
many people shoot you,
and Maladie stabs you
because it's funny,
she doesn't set a foot
in this place.
I said I had a plan.
Look, True,
I know it'll be harder
in a few days
with more people around,
-but the Galanthi is still...
-No, I'm-- what?
I'm going. Today.
I'm going.
I've got my drill, my breathers.
You've done your part.
I'm sorry, did your plan
not get as far as this?
Did you not see
my potential energy
potentially doing
the fucking job?
-But...
-I'm not turning my back
on the Galanthi
-because you got a fucking
pain the ribs.
-(clattering)
The future of the world
depends on what I'm doing.
depends on the present.
Isn't that why you're here?
(sighs)
I don't know why I'm here.
I don't know how it got this far
or what I'm doing next.
I know what I'm not doing.
I'm not mistaking
my pain for an idea.
(distant chatter)
So let's see who still thinks
I should lead.
-(door clicks open, closed)
-All right, everybody,
gather around,
since you already have.
If you weren't listening in,
Miss Adair and I have come
to a bit of a crossroads.
I am leaving in a few minutes
to find the Galanthi,
as we've planned.
I know I've been vague
about what that means,
but it's the first step
to learning
why we were
brought here together,
and what we're meant to do next.
(quietly):
And I'm going to Maladie
to save...
I'm going to the square
to stop that hanging.
I'm going to save Maladie.
That's mad, right?
Acting like she's still
a child of God.
Well, we all are.
We all have a soul,
no matter what viciousness
people are spewing.
I am going to pluck Maladie
right from out their
bigoted claws,
and let the world see
that the Touched are not here
to be slaughtered for show.
I have practiced saying this,
and I feel sweaty!
Amalia:
All right.
We had a plan.
Now there are two.
I can't compel anyone
to stay with me,
but that's... that's mental.
Don't do that.
I wish you'd reconsider.
I wish I could.
Always assumed Maladie
had a plan to escape.
Never guessed it was you.
Nimble:
Where Miss Carbey goes...
-I'll pay you.
-Nimble: Mmm...
-That's cheating!
-Well, sorry!
Uh, my plan sort of
doesn't work without you.
Nah, it's nice to be needed.
(gasps softly)
Do we all have to make a speech?
(clears throat)
♪
(breathing heavily)
I know that I'm younger
than most of you here,
but I feel like it's
my duty to say that
I love you both very much,
and...
I don't think anyone
should do anything.
Be careful.
(indistinct chatter)
♪
Frank:
Effie Boyle.
"My sales matter."
Her sales will turn
this crowd into a mob.
Do you think Hugo Swann
got her in to see Maladie?
No, no one got her in.
This is fiction.
I honestly thought
she was better than this.
I never trusted her, myself.
Have the men keep a rough count
of people coming in.
Get to 400, close the gates.
But there's thousands
of people waiting.
Then lock the gates.
Judge said public,
not packed.
Bring 'em in.
(crowd chattering)
(crowd yelling, clamoring)
♪
You two are there to help us
get in and out, nothing more.
Um, George and Violet,
yous'll be back here
with the prototype.
No one goes into that square
apart from me until...
I thought you was
going spelunking.
True said take care of you.
Right. That'll make this
easier, then. Come see.
Nimble, it'll be the same,
only...
Yeah, I'm happy to stay up here.
We're gonna need
to practice this bit.
-Hey, get off!
-Oi, watch it!
♪
Top marksmen in the country.
They won't fire
unless they have to.
But they won't miss.
How did you, um...
(clears throat)
How did you fare
in the underworld?
The king was unresponsive.
He said his men weren't
trained to stop fights.
I suppose anarchy
is a boon to him.
His dealings go unnoticed.
I did tell him which
neighborhoods to stay out of.
Do you think we should
deal with him more permanently?
A beggar's palace coup?
In time, perhaps.
Crowd's a bit thin.
-Swann.
-(chuckles) Oh. General Pecking.
-Gilberto.
-Developed a taste
for blood, have you?
Uh, blood, yes.
Just, uh...
not blue.
(grunts)
Can I help you, sir?
As it happens, you can.
For I am your favorite uncle
come from abroad,
-just to see you.
-Nah.
You're just here for
the hanging. Not for me.
Oh! We got a tub of gin inside.
-Oh!
-Tom, this is my uncle.
Hello, Tom!
-(horse snorts)
-Remember, George,
when you hear the--
it's two minutes,
and then that lever goes down.
After the prototype's
been deployed,
you drive out, and you go to...
Porchill Road,
after the drums, down.
(energy whirring)
(shattering)
(grunting)
Aneel and I studied together.
He knows I mean to practice,
but when we marry,
I'm supposed to give up
my hobby.
-Shh!
-(door slides, thuds shut)
-I'm a better student
than he is.
-(Désirée grunts)
He's gonna leave me because
I'm a better student than he is.
Désirée:
Don't be daft.
A pound says he shows up
with flowers and apologies
tomorrow at the latest.
Penance:
Did you not hear
my shushing?
-Guard:
All right, settle down!
-Oi! You!
Stop pushing,
or out you go!
Oi, is that a bottle?
-Gimme that.
You want something--
-(glass shattering)
What, you gonna cry?
Fuck off.
-He's in an uproar.
-Thank goodness.
It's less work for me.
(indistinct chatter)
♪
Tent cop:
15,000 pounds of gold!
Shh, we do not tell the others.
-Put your backs into it, lads.
-Tent cop: Yes, uncle!
My dad never even
looked at my paintings.
He said a copper's life
is good enough for me.
-Oh!
-Then he takes my brushes,
Windsor and fucking Newton,
no less, and...
(crowd laughing, chattering)
(gasps)
-(punches)
-(grunting)
♪
(drum beating)
(crowd booing and hissing)
-It's Maladie!
-(Maladie giggles)
-Maladie!
-(yelling, chattering)
(Maladie laughing)
(rumbling, cracking)
-(clattering)
-(crowd exclaiming)
(rumbling, cracking)
Quit yelling, love.
I'll be down in a minute.
(crowd laughing)
(Maladie laughing)
(crowd booing, chattering)
(barks, giggles)
You give the devil what for!
-You're a fuckin' animal!
-They should burn you!
Go on, then! Drop the bitch!
Go on! Drop her! Drop the bitch!
Crowd (chanting):
Drop the bitch!
-(horse snorts, neighs)
-Drop the bitch!
Drop the bitch!
(chanting continues)
-Tent cop: Careful.
-Oh, blimey, this is heavy.
-My back is killing me.
-(tent cop laughs)
Tent cop:
You're a fucking animal!
Crowd (chanting):
Drop the bitch!
(chanting continues)
(tense music playing)
Oh, hi.
(exploding)
(crackling, whistling)
General Pecking:
Shoot! Shoot, guards!
(firing)
-Aah!
-(thuds)
-(thwacks)
-(grunts)
(crowd exclaims)
(gasps)
She didn't want to be rescued.
(crowd murmuring)
No.
She wanted people to see.
An audience.
She's gonna kill us.
Everyone who came
to see her die.
-Get out!
-Wait.
-No, you have to get--
-No, just shut up.
What are these
power lines under us?
They don't go to the prison.
Are those barricades metal?
-(both gasp)
-It's been a privilege.
Away from the railings!
-(clacks)
-(electricity sparking)
-Frank: Birch!
Get 'em off the railings!
-(screaming)
Get 'em off!
-(sizzling)
-(yelling)
Move! Move!
-(grunts)
-Guard: Move back!
What the hell's happening?
Fucking electricity.
Move out. Out.
Ev-- Everyone--
Everyone out.
(panting)
George, don't deploy!
(grunts)
Don't touch the lever!
(electricity humming)
-(pants)
-They deserve worse.
(grunts)
(buzzing, sparking)
(crowd clamoring)
-(thwacks)
-(grunts)
(groaning)
(muffled shouting)
(yelling, clamoring)
Man:
Open it! This way!
(yelling, clamoring)
Oi. Come here.
-(gun cocks)
-(Hugo grunts)
No! No, no, no. No, don't!
(crowd clamoring)
(punching, grunting)
True said take care of you.
-(door clangs open)
-(grunts)
-Désirée: Oh! Harriet! Harriet!
-(door thuds)
(screaming, clamoring)
(muffled yelling)
Désirée:
I'll, I'll get help!
-I'll be back!
-(baby crying)
(running footsteps departing)
(blows softly)
-(crowd yelling)
-(gasps)
(exhales)
Man:
Come on, come on! Go, go!
(yelling, clamoring)
Oh!
(shattering)
(grunting)
Désirée:
Oh, God, Harriet!
(whimpering)
(grunts)
(running footsteps approaching)
Crowd (chanting):
No more Touched!
(thugs yelling)
Crowd (chanting):
No more Touched!
(chanting continues)
(distant gunfire)
(thuds)
(rope stretching)
♪
(hissing)
-(squeaks open)
-(hissing)
(panting)
Over there.
Aah! (groans)
Horatio:
Bring her in.
Go all right?
Horatio:
Put her feet up.
You?
Uh, it was a riot.
(door creaks)
I only kill angels.
She talked about
the detective who was smart,
and honest, and she didn't
marry him because he was sad.
(shrieks, yells)
(kisses)
(chuckles evilly)
(giggling)
(gasps, giggles)
-(yells)
-(thwacks)
Effie:
My sales matter.
Her sales will turn
this crowd into a mob.
Effie:
It's popular with working women.
Gordy:
Inky fingers don't make you
a reporter, Boyle.
Cop:
You see the stab wounds?
-Frank: You were there.
-Who's this?
Frank:
Murder.
♪
-(crowd clamoring)
-(glass shattering)
Don't be stupid!
-(yells)
-(glass shatters)
(yelling)
This way!
(shrieking laughter)
La!
♪
♪ (SOMBER MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
There's a fight that's coming.
Get ready!
I need to find out
who our enemy is.
♪ (MUSIC SWELLS) ♪
You could've been miles
from here months ago.
SPEAKER: We'll never know
if we've done it right.
SPEAKER 2: You know
what's coming.
AMALIA TRUE: Why are you hiding?
You said, "Find me."
Why did it go so wrong?
♪ (MUSIC CONTINUES) ♪
♪ (DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
Maladie's hanging scene,
it's just madness.
-(CROWD BUSTLING)
-They should burn you!
ANN SKELLY: Penance
realizes it could be them
in Maladie's position,
and if they can stop it,
they should.
This is a case where justice
must be seen.
And it requires a bloodletting.
They're killing her to make
a big example out of her.
That's, I think,
the principal of it.
Public execution,
we abolished 30 years ago.
They're hanging Maladie
for being Touched.
Harriet's MO
is to abide by the law.
So she sides with Penance,
because there's
a disparity of justice there.
ELLA SMITH: I think,
for Desirée, it's just survival.
She doesn't want to go along
with Amalia
because that route looks
too unknown and uncertain.
And, um, on some level,
Desirée's a bit lazy,
so she'd rather do less work.
Penance's plan to save Maladie
is quite a crucial thing
to be able to pull off.
SMITH: And that sense
of the orphanage coming together
for the greater good...
You can feel it when you're
on set. It's really exciting.
(LAUGHS)
SKELLY:
I remember I was supposed
to get a 4 a.m. call time
and go and shoot this.
And it was just like,
"Oh, we're all shutting down."
And it was like, "Okay,
see you in a few weeks?"
JOHNNY HAN: We all
disappeared for six months,
and, originally,
we were gonna shoot
in a very historic part
of London called Greenwich.
It was just a grand,
grand space.
But, during these COVID times,
we just said, "You know what?
What if we just built
our own town square?"
GEMMA JACKSON: I'm so
pleased that we got to build it
because with COVID
and everything
and not having so many extras...
It's not as big as Greenwich,
which is good,
and it's got a lot more,
sort of, ins and outs to it.
We created the back of a prison
in a sleazy, down part of town,
really.
So, I plied my painter
with all these pictures
of filthy walls
and what have you.
TINA JONES:
It just has that lovely,
Victorian griminess about it,
which inspired everything
that we're putting in there.
We sort of do research into
what they would've eaten then.
So an event like this...
toffee apples,
oysters, jellied eels.
So those are the sort of things
that the poor extras are eating.
It needs to feel real.
Even down to things
that probably
the camera won't pick up,
like bits of oyster shell
crushed on the ground.
The creatives on this just
take things to another level.
So, as an actor,
you just step on set
and melt into your surroundings.
It was interesting to see
the crew who were, like,
just on the lookout
for how to make it
look as realistic as possible.
Bring 'em in.
Public execution was an event
that brought together people
from different classes.
They were this sort
of spectacle.
I think people really saw it
as a holiday.
There was this sort of ring
that the police had set up
so that no one
could get too close.
But beyond that,
it was a free-for-all.
HAN: We were supposed to fill it
with hundreds
and hundreds of people.
But we actually used
digital motion capture crowds
and spread out
socially distanced crowds
on green screen.
CAMERAPERSON: Come on, guys...
And roll!
(CROWD CLAMORING)
HAN: That kind of gave us
a lot more opportunities
to do a lot of camera tricks
to make not so many people
seem like a lot of people.
(CROWD JEERING)
ROWLEY IRLAM:
The hanging of Maladie...
It won't actually be our actor,
it will be a stunt double,
because it's more unpleasant
than it is dangerous.
So we have a dressing rope
that looks like a noose.
And that's tightened
with bungee,
but it will always stretch.
So, when they drop through,
they're actually dropping
into a harness.
And the actual pain is
at the top of the legs
where the femoral arteries are.
That's what takes the impact.
The hanging scene is just
this enormous moment
within that world.
Nimble appears, using the turn
to get Sue down to the gallows.
We had this massive ramp,
which we built on the stage,
and painted it green.
Our stunt double
can run and jump,
and we'd use wires just to take
the sting out of the landing.
Working with the effects,
they have to take
all of these shots
and stick them
into a real environment.
SPEAKER 2: Shoot! Shoot that!
(GUNSHOT FIRES)
And then, it, you know,
it all kicks off.
It all goes crazy.
-(CROWD CLAMORING)
-(RUMBLING)
SKELLY: You see,
I knew that Amy Manson
wasn't going to die
in that episode.
And I was like, "Okay,
what's the loophole here?"
She wanted people to see.
BEN CHAPLIN:
He realizes this is a setup.
"We're not hanging her,
she's hanging us."
PIP TORRENS: What does happen
is completely unforeseen.
You know, it is,
as Massen says,
"It all comes down
to effing electricity,"
which is a great line.
-(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)
-(CROWD CLAMORING)
MIKE DAWSON: The railings were
hollowed out and perforated.
And then we pumped
some smoke up there
so that when people
are getting electrocuted,
all the smoke comes out around
them like they're sizzling up.
(SCREAMING, GROANING)
Maladie had rigged
this whole thing up
to drive people to that hanging.
She set up this identity
for herself
that she's gonna
be able to observe.
(CROWD CLAMORING)
She's harboring a hell of a lot
of resentment and pain.
She needs to seek revenge.
CHAPLIN: Frank,
he remembers Clara,
who has a kind
of fetish for the Touched.
Sacrifice, you know?
(GIGGLES)
Through a fight sequence
with Frank Mundi,
the two end up
switching positions.
(GRUNTS)
CHAPLIN: So, he then starts
thinking about a conversation
that he had with Effie Boyle.
EFFIE BOYLE: My sales matter!
He starts putting it together
that the journalist,
who's been covering the trial
and eager to get access
to Maladie... is Maladie.
(SCREAMING)
AMY MANSON:
Before the whole Maladie reveal
is when you first see
she starts to feel empathy.
Hurry!
MANSON:
That is a beautiful moment
for the audience.
Deep down, she does have
a conscience, you know?
She's a person.
She's not invincible.
Even the villains in our show
have so much heart.
CHRISTINE BLUNDELL:
The Effie reveal was great fun.
Yeah, that was
the hardest there,
trying to hide Maladie's wig
under another wig.
Amy just did such
a brilliant job.
Teeth out,
threw them on the floor.
Wig off, threw it.
And she's back to Maladie.
I think for the audience
that's so delicious
after the event.
MANSON: You know, she's smart.
She's plotted, well,
everything really.
From the start of episode one.
You realize, "Oh, my God! Okay.
This is much more sophisticated
than I realized."
JANE ESPENSON: A lot
of things start to pay off.
But there are a lot
of mysteries left too.